# psychicCycling
Sound Based Horror Game 


Installation of game wise design

This application requires a sound library which is not included in this repository. Size of the audio library is around 1.3 gb which contains bin-aural recordings and sound design files. Please contact me if you want to give a try.

Hardware:
A bicycle (also a stand for back wheel to rise it up)
Arduino Uno
2X GY 521 board (MPU6050 chip with accelerometer and gyro which have 6DOF) (one for helmet, one for handlebar)
A magnetic speed sensor
A projector to screen visuals

Software:
Max 6.1
Processing 2.2.1 with Video and OSC libraries
Arduino Software with i2cdevlib library for extracting DMP data from GY 521 board

Explanations:

This is a horror type of game project that aims more experiencing what it provides than achieving a goal as typical in simulants. It obtains a sound design work which leads the user while interacting with it and a visual design that creates a scary atmosphere rather than deriving instructions or routing from the screen for users. Interactivity is achieved by two GY 521 breakout board  and a magnetic speed sensor through Arduino Uno. Processing is used as a game logic design tool, hardware communicator, visualization processor and a data provider for Max platform. We used DMP in MPU6050 (Digital Motion Processor) to extract processed data from Arduino thanks to i2cdevlib Arduino Software library. This provide us more accurate data than raw ones according to motion of the board. Max calls sound files and process 3D audio effects according to the player’s position on 2D map which created in Processing and  forward actions that the user needs to do (users do not see any map information on screen but voices and sounds orient them). There are safety and unsafety regions. According to the player’s true or false decisions, tension in the game increases or decreases. Passing over the threshold, according to the range of being unsafety places may cause kill condition which determined by Max’s stochastic kill condition code. If it happens, also processing engines its kill condition.

About Game Map Logic;
The level will be in the form of a 2D tile set. Each tile will have a “safety level”. The safest level will be 0, and the user will now that he or she is on the right path. The lower the safety level is, the more “scare effects” there will be. The lowest safety level will be when the user’s position will be out of the tile set’s boundaries.  For the safety scoring to make sense, the safest level will be 0, then -1, then -2 and so on. In order for the user to find the right path, if a tile is already visited, it will be set to -1. 
Let’s give an example of a 10x10 map at time t = 0:
|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|
|-6| 0| 0|-1|-2| 0| 0| 0| 0|-3|-2|-6|
|-6|-1| 0| 0|-1|-1|-1|-1| 0|-2|-1|-6|
|-6|-2|-1| 0|-1|-3|-2|-1| 0|-1| 0|-6|
|-6|-1|-1| 0|-1|-2|-1| 0| 0| 0| 0|-6|
|-6| X| 0| 0|-1| 0| 0| 0|-1|-1| 0|-6|
|-6|-1|-1| 0|-1| 0|-1| 0|-1|-1| 0|-6|
|-6|-2|-1| 0| 0| 0| 0|-1|-1|-1| 0|-6|
|-6|-3|-2|-1|-1|-1| 0|-1|-2|-1| 0| 1|
|-6|-4|-3|-1| 0| 0| 0|-1|-2|-1|-1|-6|
|-6|-5|-4|-1| 0|-1| 0|-1|-2|-2|-2|-6|
|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|


As shown above, the possible paths are presented by 0’s.  The X represents the starting tile of our user.  The 1 represents the goal. The -6 ‘s are outside the boundaries of the 10x10 tile set, and are equal to the minimum safety score in the tile set -1. The more the users advances to inner layers of unsafe zones, the smaller becomes the safety score. 

At time t = 1, if the user made the correct move:
|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|
|-6| 0| 0|-1|-2| 0| 0| 0| 0|-3|-2|-6|
|-6|-1| 0| 0|-1|-1|-1|-1| 0|-2|-1|-6|
|-6|-2|-1| 0|-1|-3|-2|-1| 0|-1| 0|-6|
|-6|-1|-1| 0|-1|-2|-1| 0| 0| 0| 0|-6|
|-6|-1| X| 0|-1| 0| 0| 0|-1|-1| 0|-6|
|-6|-1|-1| 0|-1| 0|-1| 0|-1|-1| 0|-6|
|-6|-2|-1| 0| 0| 0| 0|-1|-1|-1| 0|-6|
|-6|-3|-2|-1|-1|-1| 0|-1|-2|-1| 0| 1|
|-6|-4|-3|-1| 0| 0| 0|-1|-2|-1|-1|-6|
|-6|-5|-4|-1| 0|-1| 0|-1|-2|-2|-2|-6|
|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|-6|

The old position of the user is scored -1, thus the user will be less likely to be lost. If the safety level is below a certain threshold, a “kill” message generated by probability rules of a max patch will determine if our character dies or not.
